---
date: 2020-12-07T22:44:01Z
updated:
title: How I learn
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
draft: false
showdate: true
---

It's fair to say that I have an interest in a broad range of topics. It's also fair to say that I don't like to dive down into the detail of any one of them. To find out about something I'm slightly interested in, I'll read the introduction, see some examples and follow a tutorial if it's available. If the tool, language or technology is well documented, I'll usually feel like I know enough about it to have a go at making something. Of course at that point everything falls apart.

## Reading isn't enough

I am quite a fast reader. My job involves reading a lot, and over the years I have developed my ability to scan a document when looking for something specific. Usually, because I understand the subject of what I am reading, I don't need to process every detail that is written to have a good idea of what's going on.

When I read something that is less well known to me (e.g. most of the world of software development), I still read with the confidence that I have with other material. But when it comes to actually trying to _use_ that information, I quickly fail.

This experience was highlighted to me at the weekend when I committed to completing a working version of a Svelte app I had been messing around with. Despite reading a lot, watching a lot, following tutorials and so on, when it came to knowing what to do for myself, I struggled a lot.

## I learn by doing

I had a frustrating time. There were so many aspects I wanted to use and had already played with, but trying to put them together in a way that worked _and_ that did something that I had only the vaguest idea of was a struggle. However, by stripping the project back to its most basic, I was able to focus on one problem at a time. By doing this, not only could I spend more time understanding what was going on, but I benefited from many small (tiny) achievements rather than waiting for one big success.

By the end of the weekend, I had a very simple application that I could run and, more importantly, that I _understood_. I followed this achievement by implementing some tooling to make my development process a bit easier, looking at good practice for git commits, linting etc.

## I learn slowly

Not only to I need to make something in order to really start to understand it, it takes me a very long time. I think this is more to do with wanting to do many things and being impatient than anything else. A learning capacity problem: I can't manage learning Svelte (and therefore JavaScript and/or TypeScript), Tailwind CSS (and design ideas in general), API design, CI principles, etc all at the same time, despite being interested in it all. But if I can focus on one thing at a time, I should hopefully be able to get there.

_I'm publishing this as part of 100 Days to Offload. You can join in yourself by visiting [https://100daystooffload.com.](https://100daystooffload.com)_
