---
date:
updated:
title:
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
draft: true
showdate: true
---

How do I feel? Tired, cold, hot, depressed, frustrated, horny. Anxious, bored, awakened, needy. Apprehensive. Worn, fatigued, uncertain.

It's a difficult time at the moment. I'm not unhappy as such -- indeed there is a lot going on with Becca that should make me anything but unhappy -- but I am fed up. The concept of pandemic fatigue was brought up at work and I think it is a great description for how I feel. Although I don't feel particularly limited by the restrictions in place, just knowing that they are there and why is an incredibly exhausting thing to deal with. I have got to the point now where I turn away from the news by default rather than by exception. I just don't want to hear any more about it -- isn't there anything else to talk about?

Let's discuss Becca for a bit too. I will never say that this isn't complicated. After the opening up about our actual feelings and realising that we both wanted each other, I conveniently left the area. I know this was a disappointment for Becca, but for me I can't quite say that. It gave me a convenient reason to not be able to give in to the substantial urges and break the lockdown rules. I know she wanted to have sex with me and I wouldn't have had to attempt to encourage her at all. The idea is obviously something that is one I have contemplated, and one I want to experience, but if there's a reason to hesitate and be nervous, I will take it.

It's classic me. I absolutely want to, and since we started down this path I've been talking about having sex almost constantly, always wanting to get her horny and talk about what we would do. But wanting to and actually doing it are vastly different things in my head. I'm terrified about how it would go and what would happen. From the logistics, sneaking around my family and hers, to managing her and my expectations, to the actual performance and the longer term implications, there is such a large amount to be apprehensive about that the need to come back home gave me some welcome physical separation.

_I'm publishing this as part of 100 Days to Offload. You can join in yourself by visiting [https://100daystooffload.com.](https://100daystooffload.com)_
