---
title: Ups and Downs
date: 2021-05-08T20:02:29Z
draft: false
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
---

It feels like there have been a lot of ups and downs lately, but I can't think of any specific examples. I think I'm generally a bit fed up, but there aren't any extremes -- good or bad.

## Feeling slightly up

Work has been quite involved lately, and busy but in an energetic and reasonably interesting way. I have been able to see people in person and travel a bit, so it makes a nice change and reinforces the view that I would like to split my time between home and the office (as well as a limited amount of business travel too).

At home, my new [sewing hobby](https://sewing.pestrickland.co.uk) continues to develop, and I've been putting in some effort to draft some patterns digitally in preparation for (hopefully) designing outfits for my niblings.

Running has been a reassuring constant, but I also feel that I am gaining some fitness as the weeks go by. I don't have a goal, but I am glad of every run I finish.

## Feeling slightly down

I keep feeling like a child waiting for the end of term. I want the week to be over, but for what? There is no end of term -- after the weekend the work starts again and I don't have enough time off to be able to regularly look forward to that. Compounding this, when I do have time off, I find myself at an increased risk of feeling down. I think it's a case of me expecting too much from myself, and feeling disappointed then at the lack of progress.

Earlier this year I was on quite an aggressive emotional roller coaster, but although there are still a few bumps to be felt because of that, I feel like I have generally moved past the peaks and troughs of joy and anguish, so can approach something closer to normality again. It's sad in a way, but there is much to be said for some stability.

## Feeling in between

As vaccines continue their roll-out and coverage increases amongst the people I follow and interact with, my unvaccinated state gets a bit annoying. There's absolutely no reason for this to be a concern; we are vaccinated based on need and that means age and health, and since I am younger and quite healthy it's simply not my turn yet. My interactions with people haven't changed, so my risk is no different, and I don't find myself desperate to travel or see more people, or visit crowded places, so there is no problem. I guess it's just a small amount of jealousy combined with a lot of fatigue at this long-running disaster that the world has found itself in.

_I'm publishing this as part of 100 Days to Offload. You can join in yourself by visiting [https://100daystooffload.com.](https://100daystooffload.com)_
