---
date: 2020-06-24T19:35:00Z
title:
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
draft: false
showdate: true
---

Today was hot. So hot. Here in the UK we've had what seems like endless months of warm weather, but this week is where it gets silly. Now that's only relative; we're talking 29°C and some humidity, but it's too much for me. Funnily enough I have experienced the late summer temperatures of the Mojave desert but that always seems more bearable and a novelty than this (and it's probably helped by the fact that everything is air conditioned, whereas here instead we do what we can to stay warm in winter). Needless to say I don't like it.

So far this week, in accordance with a plan to break up my workday, I've finished my run every day before lunch. The original plan was that I would run as soon as I reached the end of my first block of productivity. That hasn't been too successful so far. The problem seems to be that when I reach a natural break I either move too quickly onto something else or get asked a question. So rather than heading out between 09:30 and 10:00, I've only managed 11:00, 13:30 and 11:30.

Despite the suboptimal time to run, I have been quite pleased at being able to return to work when I get back, and I don't feel that my days are any less productive. I'd hope that in time I will see them as *more* productive, but it's very early days yet.

*I'm publishing this as part of 100 Days To Offload. You can join in yourself by visiting [https://100daystooffload.com](https://100daystooffload.com).*
