---
title: Thoughts on dependencies
date: 2021-02-07T20:43:50Z
draft: true
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
---

Lately I've found myself inadvertently looking at programme planning and engineering management. I didn't think I would have ever needed to do that, much less that it would interest me, but there you go.

I needed to think of a way to develop a robust model to handle the disturbance of a system (say introducing a new piece of equipment to an aircraft) and its impact on a variety of different related elements (such as maintenance burden, supply, transport etc). We do this sort thing a lot, but it became sensible to think about whether you could formalise this as a model.

Being technically-minded people, we usually capture the engineering aspects quite well. But as with most things, there is a schedule of some sort to manage -- the user wants something at particular point in time. In order to deliver to a schedule, there is a need to determine duration of different activities and how each activity relates to each other.

## How do we estimate?

We estimate badly. Over the years I've seen and used a variety of techniques to estimate my work and that of others. There is a small caveat in that a lot of our work is intangible and the progress of a report I write, for example, is dependent on the information that feeds it, and that is out of my control to a large extent. Still, we are asked to estimate and we have a variety of methods in use:

- Think of a number and double it
- It's usually about 6 weeks
- Attempt a work breakdown structure but then the two techniques above can still be applied
- T-shirt sizing (small/medium/large tasks) but these shouldn't really be used to drive time estimates
- Look at when the deadline is and guess how hard you'd have to work to fit the job in

I'm being a bit flippant here; we do have a lot of experience that we can use as well, and we manage to deliver successfully the majority of the time. But it's an annoying part of our process.

## How do we schedule?

At our local level, we do this well. For us, we rely on evidence being delivered before we can deliver our work, and the project's report can only be delivered once each contributing report – and its own set of evidence – is completed. Prior to that, the evidence generation activities have to be completed. So you can see how we can start to work a few steps back from our work and could probably sketch a timeline of what needs to happen in what order. I won't talk about time at this point, mainly for the reasons in the section above.

When we begin to consider external dependencies, the problem becomes greater. Each external dependency we identify most likely has its own set of dependencies, but these are not always visible to us. Instead, we have a limited amount of information available to us: sometimes we may have an indication of the underlying schedule; sometimes we may just have a forecast date of completion; and in the worst case we may only know whether or not it has been completed.

In order for our own estimate to be reasonable, we need to be confident in understanding our schedule. But since we cannot rely on seeing everything with transparency and certainty, I am tempted to suggest that we cannot expect to produce an accurate and confident estimate. And in realising this I may have reverse engineered the ideas underpinning PERT.

## Revisiting PERT

The Programme Evaluation and Review Technique adds uncertainty to scheduling.
