---
title: Existence
date: 2021-04-22T21:39:57Z
draft: false
tags: [100daystooffload, blog]
---

Have you ever seen someone's biography on a blog in which the person lists what they consider to define them? It might be something like _Sarah is a mother of 2, marathon runner, baker, life coach and Christian_. These sorts of biographies have always annoyed me. At first I simply disliked the idea of writing about yourself in the third person; it seems so forced when you can just say _I_. Recently though, I was asked something similar about myself. I don't remember the question exactly, but it was something like _what's your goal in life?_, or _what do you need most?_

When faced with these sorts of questions or discussions, I am lost for words. I do not have anything like a five-year plan, or a bucket list, or other set of life goals. I don't have a family to raise or particularly want one. I generally enjoy my work but it is still work. I have some hobbies but couldn't imagine wanting to do any of those full time, and they certainly wouldn't sustain me. So what's left? Do I just exist?

This might sound like more of an existential crisis than it actually is, but I am genuinely curious about whether existence is all that truly defines me. Of course, I could make it sound slightly more positive by saying that I prefer living in the present as opposed to dwelling on the past or wishing for a different future, but I don't think that portrays the situation in much of a better light. So, I exist, but what for exactly?

## Motivation

### Purpose

If I was simply existing, then I would still need to work in order to earn money for food and shelter (unless of course I was born into what used to be the aristocracy and had no need to earn my own money). I could maximise my earning potential based on my abilities and for pure monetary reward it wouldn't actually matter _what_ I did, as long as it paid me enough. This is where I deviate from the purely existential I think.

My job, with its inevitable ups and downs, the curiously lower pay than many professions, and the mundanity of much of the 9-5 routine, gives me purpose. I get a sense that what I am doing is in some way meaningful. If I was offered more pay to do something that I did not value in the same way, I wouldn't do it.

### Mastery

I have written about this before, but increasingly over the past few years, I am confident that I am good at my job. I feel that I am sought out to tackle specific problems because I have the right set of skills. And these are skills that I can largely take credit for myself; I learned how to do this job without a huge amount of explicit guidance or tuition.

### Autonomy

In and out of work, I can almost always shape my day in a way that suits me. I decide what I want to do with my non-working time, and even at work I can usually decide what I focus on and when.

## Just Existing?

Is it sufficient to simply exist? Maybe it isn't, but perhaps it is sufficient to thrive. And maybe I thrive in _my_ existence by being motivated by there being purpose in my work, by continuously developing a sense of mastery, and doing all of that with almost complete autonomy. That doesn't sound too bad.

_I'm publishing this as part of 100 Days to Offload. You can join in yourself by visiting [https://100daystooffload.com.](https://100daystooffload.com)_
